hello this is dan from garage strength
and today we will be making kombucha
kombucha is a fermented tea and our key
components are our mother organic green
tea white sugar a gallon container and
boiling water this is the kombucha
mother it's a scoby which is a Simba
colony of bacteria similar to the kaffir
grains and the bacteria on this mother
will be used we'll use the sugar to
ferment and create kombucha will be
using organic green tea the reason why I
like these are green tea is because
green tea is a heavily sprayed crop and
it's just better to get organic for the
most part to avoid pesticides which can
lead to cancers and other things it's
also good today we're using tea bags but
I also use loose grantee for the most
most of the time will be using white
sugar white sugar is usually the
ultimate poison but today we're using it
because the scoby can easily feed off
the white sugar and produces glucuronic
acid which your liver can then use to
detox from xenoestrogens and other
environmental contaminants in your body
and then the boiling water i like to
boil first off because some places put
fluoride and other things into their
water so we'll use the today we're in an
area that is a fairly developed area
where they probably do put fluoride in
the water
so hopefully this boiling can get the
fluoride out of the water before we get
everything going okay so now we're going
to mix the tea and the sugar together
into the hot water so usually a good
rule of thumb is to make weak to
moderately strong grantee which is about
8 teaspoons of green tea to one gallon
of water and then 1 cup of sugar so
we're going to put our tea bags in which
is about a teaspoon each so we have a to
them and set them in their steep we're
going to place the sugar in just come in
and now we're going to let the green tea
steep and wants to keep cools to room
temperature then we can put it into our
gallon container and put the kombucha
mother in there so that we're not
burning the kombucha mother with hotter
temperature water
okay so now we're back we're gonna
finish up the bucho we took the tea out
of here poured it into gallon jug will
let it cool off to room temperature we
took the tea bags out now we're going to
compost the tea bags and now we're going
to put the mother right here into the
kombucha we're going to let it ferment
for over about two weeks where I cover
this with a cheesecloth and then the
kombucha will be ready to drink and
ready to go um one thing I will say is
that you don't always have to use white
sugar one of my good friends poured wit
rig actually prefer us to use honey
because it gives a little bit more
carbonation it's a little bit maybe a
little healthier I'm not really sure but
it does taste a little bit has a little
bit more flavor so that's up to you
either agave nectar white sugar or honey